# TurkishSignLanguageAlphabetDetection-TensorflowAPI
final year of bsc computer engineering graduation project

SUMMARY

DETECTING SIGN LANGUAGE SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH COMPUTER VISION

Deaf communities have used sign languages throughout history. The oldest written record of sign language dates back to BC. It dates back to the 5th century. Until the 19th century, most of what was known about sign languages was limited to hand-made alphabets (finger alphabets), which were produced to facilitate the transfer of words from the oral language to the sign language, rather than the documentation of the language. Pedro Ponce de Leon is said to have developed the first finger alphabet. Although the origin of Turkish Sign Language (TİD) is not known for certain, it is hypothetically based on the deaf people found in Ottoman palaces. It was known that there were deaf people in the palace since Fatih Sultan Mehmet and that some hearing people also spoke sign language among themselves. On the other hand, the first studies on education were carried out in the period of Abdulhamit II. During this period, deaf schools were opened in various places for the deaf. Schools opened in the first years of the Republic of Turkey were working with the oralist method, but in the 2000s, this method was abandoned and schools in Turkey switched to sign language education.
Sign languages are the languages that use the visual channel to convey meaning to the other side. They are expressed by hand signals (manual) as well as non-hand gestures (non- manual). Sign languages are natural languages with their own vocabulary and grammatical structure. While not universal, there are striking similarities between sign languages. Linguists regard both spoken and sign communication as natural language, which means that both emerged as a result of an abstract, long process and unplanned evolution over time. Sign languages should not be confused with body language, which is a form of nonverbal communication.
Wherever there are deaf communities, sign languages have developed as a useful means of communication and have also become the basis of local deaf cultures. Although sign language is generally used by the deaf and hard of hearing, it can also be used by hearing individuals, such as children of deaf parents (CODA), who cannot speak physically, who cannot use verbal language due to a medical condition or disability, or who live with deaf family members. used. It is not known exactly how many sign languages exist in the world. In general, each country has its own sign language, but in some, this number is more than one. The 2013 edition of Ethnologue counts 137 sign languages. Some sign languages have legal status, while others do not.
In this project, which does not have any cost and will facilitate the communication of individuals with hearing impairment, the pictures with the sign language alphabet are used as the source data set, and it is aimed to monitor the movement made to the computer camera with the camera, to determine which letter the result belongs to and to print it out on the screen. No additional equipment is required. First of all, after detailed scanning and research of subjects such as Python, OpenCV, TensorFlow, and Deep Learning the project will be started and the project will be done step by step.

